---
published: true
---
## Programming Laptop Thoughts
So I currently use a Macbook Pro 13" from 2015, and bought it this year. A UNIX-based OS is probably ideal for development since you use the terminal a lot, and the Windows equivalent (powershell) is pretty horrendous. 

Of course you can work around it, but it's not like Windows is free first of all, and Windows often have a lot of quirks in my experience, due to supporting pretty much all computer hardware ever created. 

The alternative to Windows on PC would is of course Linux, and probably an Ubuntu distro if Linux-experience is minimal, since Ubuntu does include a nice looking GUI, and includes severable sensible default packages. The problem with Linux distros in general is that there are no guarantees that it works all the time, and I experienced a lot of bugs trying out some of the more GUI-heavy distros such as Linux Mint, Fedora and Ubuntu.

And then there's OSX on a Mac. Here's the thing: Macs just work (most of the time anyways...).
If you're not doing anything requiring a lot of power, such as playing games or editing video, you probably won't encounter many problems on a Mac. Of course there is the price that you pay for, what is on the paper a very underpowered machine (to say the least). However once you get used to Macs, and how well the trackpads work for scrolling and zooming, it's very hard to go back.

I myself bought a 13" since I thought I would just use it as a laptop, and use my desktop as my main computer. However I soon realized I just liked OSX too much, and having to constantly sync files between the two computers became a nuisance. This lead to me just buying a mac keyboard and mouse, and plugging the laptop into a monitor. Looking back I probably would have spent a little more and gotten the 15" from 2015 (as the newer MacBook Pros are a bit of a pricejump from the 13" 2015 version).

No matter what you choose, I can highly recommend buying a good solid laptop, such as a Lenovo Thinkpad or a Macbook. Preferrably a 15 inch model, with quad core CPU and 16 GB of ram. When you look for a laptop with these specs, you will probably find that Macbooks aren't anymore expensive than a PC. Of course you may be able to get a gaming laptop with these specs for much cheaper, but the battery life as well as portability is often quite poor for these machines.






